This demo is really a continuation of the previous demo.
It just became too long.
So I split it up.
In this demo I'm going to show you some useful "kubectl" commands.
Some more commands I can use "kubectl attach"
And then the pod name
this attaches to our running process, but our process is just running.
So, we're not going to see much here. If our process would output some log
We would see two logs here.
We can also execute something in that container
So, we can use "kubectl exec" to execute a command.
So, let's say that we use "ls /app"
That's what is in our "/" folder.
So, this is a list of the files of "/app" in the running container.
If a file was created here using for instance, "touch /app/test.txt", this "test.txt" will disappear if this container is killed.
That's what I meant earlier with the date of container is never persistent,
It just disappears when the container is stopped.
You need to use volumes, which we will see much later if you want data to be persisted over time.
There's still one comment that I want to show you.
First, I want to show you the service
So, I'm going to do "kubectl describe nodehelloworld-service"
So, it has a label, it was exposed as a "NodePort"
It has an IP address.
So, this is an endpoint that is exposed, we could connect to from another pod.
You can either use this endpoint or we could use a "NodePort", because "NodePort" is a static port that will be always accessible
I am going to use this endpoint now.
So, I am just going to copy and paste this
And what are we going to do is we going to launch another pod with this "busybox", we are going to use "image=busybox".
And we are going to execute a shell and this is going to create a new pod with a new container.
And then we can just execute comments on our Kubernetes cluster.
I don't have "curl" here so I'm going to "telnet" to this endpoint of my "nodehelloworld-service".
And then I'm going to see "GET /"
I get a "200 OK" back.
And this is my express over.
So, it says, "Hello World!".
So this is another way of connecting to the pod from within the cluster not within the same pods
Because then I could actually just connect to a local host port 3000.
If it was a container in the same pod and this is another pod, and then I can use this endpoint and connect to the to this pod still.
Later on I will talk about services discovery and DNS.
And we are not going to use these manual endpoints. But for now for now
I just want to show you what is possible.
In the next lecture, I will show you how to export a service that uses the LoadBalancer on AWS.